tdx-attestation-app/README.md, before:

# Hardware Attestation

## Build Instructions for Linux

Create a Linux Trusted Domain virtual machine in Azure and clone the application.

Use the below command to install all the dependencies necessary to run this sample app.
```sh
$ sudo ./install.sh
```

Once the above install script is done, use the below steps to build and run the app

```sh
cmake .
```
```sh
make
```
```sh
sudo ./TdxAttest -c config.json
```

## Config Definition
```
{
  "attestation_url": "<attestation endpoint to validate the hardware evidence>",
  "attestation_provider": "<attestation provider (allowed values: amber or maa)>",
  "api_key": "<the api key if needed | this is required for Amber>",
  "enable_metrics": set to true to enable measurements for each request,
  "output_filename": "<store the hardware evidence (Td Quote) into a file>",
  "claims": <a well formed json object for generating the hardware evidence>
}
```

## enable_metrics
If metrics are enabled, new `metrics.json` file will be created, as well as a summary will be printed in the console:
```
...
Run Summary:
        Evidence Request(ms): 27.899809
        Attestation Request(ms): 2172.986599
```

`metrics.json` Example:
```
{
    "Attestation Request(ms)": "2172.879354",
    "Evidence Request(ms)": "71.515078"
}
```

Commit message:

Add suse support (#2)
* Adding suse support

* chmod

* latest pkg

* Older pkg

* nit

* Small fix on dependencies

* fixing last error

* auto import

* update readme

---------

Co-authored-by: cloud-init created default user <accuser@jave-new-suse.qyw5jgpia0bunbt43jbuovxgpa.cbnx.internal.cloudapp.net>

tdx-attestation-app/README.md, after:

# Hardware Attestation

## Instructions for Ubuntu
Create an Ubuntu Trusted Domain virtual machine in Azure and clone the application.

Use the below command to install all the dependencies necessary to run this sample app.
```sh
$ sudo ./install.sh
```

## Instructions for SUSE
Create an SUSE Trusted Domain virtual machine in Azure and clone the application.

> If git is not installed, run `sudo zypper install git`

Use the below command to install all the dependencies necessary to run this sample app.
```sh
$ sudo ./suse_install.sh
```

## Build
Once the above install script is done, use the below steps to build and run the app

```sh
cmake .
```
```sh
make
```
```sh
sudo ./TdxAttest -c config.json
```

## Config Definition
```
{
  "attestation_url": "<attestation endpoint to validate the hardware evidence>",
  "attestation_provider": "<attestation provider (allowed values: amber or maa)>",
  "api_key": "<the api key if needed | this is required for Amber>",
  "enable_metrics": set to true to enable measurements for each request,
  "output_filename": "<store the hardware evidence (Td Quote) into a file>",
  "claims": <a well formed json object for generating the hardware evidence>
}
```

## enable_metrics
If metrics are enabled, new `metrics.json` file will be created, as well as a summary will be printed in the console:
```
...
Run Summary:
        Evidence Request(ms): 27.899809
        Attestation Request(ms): 2172.986599
```

`metrics.json` Example:
```
{
    "Attestation Request(ms)": "2172.879354",
    "Evidence Request(ms)": "71.515078"
}
```
